blog: implementing oauth2 login for flask app (#19105)
supabase/supabase: apps/www/_blog/2023-11-21-oauth2-login-python-flask-apps.mdx

---

> title: 'Implementing GitHub OAuth2 login for Python Flask app'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: 'GitHub OAuth in your Python Flask app'
```

> description: Learn how to implement OAuth in your Python Flask applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: A step-by-step guide on building Login with Github into your Python apps.
```

categories:
  - engineering
tags:
  - python
  - auth
date: '2023-11-21'
toc_depth: 3
author: andrew_smith
image: oauth2-login-python-flask-apps/OG-image.jpg
thumb: oauth2-login-python-flask-apps/OG-image.jpg
---

> OAuth is an open standard protocol facilitating secure authorization and authentication for third-party applications to access user resources without obtaining their credentials directly. The OAuth 2.0 version involves users granting permission, authorization servers issuing access tokens, and resource servers verifying tokens to enable controlled access across various web services and APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide we'll learn how to quickly build an OAuth2.0 integration into a simple Flask app using Supabase-py. This will enable your users to login to your web app using their GitHub account.
```

> For a while now most of the Supabase authentication flow has been predominantly client-side driven, this was due to `supabase-js` starting as a way to cover client-side frameworks like React. However, we have since evolved beyond the client-side only authentication flow with which we started and we are now able to work with different server-side frameworks of which Python Flask is one of such.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Prerequisites

This article assumes you are familiar with creating an application in Flask. It also assumes that you have read the Supabase documentation and are familiar the with concept of [Authentication](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth).

> We will use the following tools

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll use the following tools:
```

- [Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/3.0.x/) - we used version 2.3.3 for this article

> - Supabase Dashboard - [create an account](https://database.new/) if you do not have one

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Supabase Dashboard - [create an account](https://database.new/) if you don't have one already
```

## Getting started

To begin, inside your Flask application install the `supabase` library using the following command in the terminal:

```bash
pip install supabase
```

## Session storage

Open the project in your preferred code editor and create a file called `flask_storage.py` with the following content:

```python
from gotrue import SyncSupportedStorage
from flask import session

class FlaskSessionStorage(SyncSupportedStorage):
    def __init__(self):
        self.storage = session

    def get_item(self, key: str) -> str | None:
        if key in self.storage:
            return self.storage[key]

    def set_item(self, key: str, value: str) -> None:
        self.storage[key] = value

    def remove_item(self, key: str) -> None:
        if key in self.storage:
            self.storage.pop(key, None)
```

> In this file, we are extending the `SyncSupportedStorage` class from the `gotrue` library which comes bundled with the `supabase` library. Here we are telling the Supabase authentication library (`gotrue`) how to retrieve, store and remove a session that will store our JSON Web Token (JWT).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this file, we're extending the `SyncSupportedStorage` class from the `gotrue` library which comes bundled with the `supabase` library. Here we're telling the Supabase authentication library (`gotrue`) how to retrieve, store and remove a session that will store our JSON Web Token (JWT).
```

## Initiate the client

> Create another file called `supabase_client.py` and in this file, we will initiate our Supabase client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create another file called `supabase_client.py` and in this file, we'll initiate our Supabase client.
```

## Create sign-in route

Inside our application code `app.py`, we can create the sign-in route to trigger the OAuth sign-in request.

```python
@app.route("/signin/github")
def signin_with_github():
    res = supabase.auth.sign_in_with_oauth(
        {
            "provider": "github",
            "options": {
	            "redirect_to": f"{request.host_url}callback"
	        },
        }
    )
    return redirect(res.url)
```

In this function `options` object we specify a `redirect_to` parameter which will point to the callback route we will create in the next step. This function will generate a url for us to use to redirect the user to, in this case we are using `github` as our OAuth provider so we will be redirected to the GitHub OAuth consent screen.

## Create callback route

Let's add another route to our `app.py` file for the callback endpoint we specified in our sign in route.

```python
@app.route("/callback")
def callback():
    code = request.args.get("code")
    next = request.args.get("next", "/")

    if code:
        res = supabase.auth.exchange_code_for_session({"auth_code": code})

    return redirect(next)
```

> Here we are getting the `code` query parameter from the request object, if this is available we then exchange the code for a session so that the user will be signed in. Under the hood the `supabase` python library will handle storing this session (JWT) into a cookie and sign the user in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here we're getting the `code` query parameter from the request object, if this is available we then exchange the code for a session so that the user will be signed in. Under the hood the `supabase` python library will handle storing this session (JWT) into a cookie and sign the user in.
```

## Conclusion

> In this post we explained how to setup a flask session storage to work with the Supabase python library, setting the `flow_type` to use Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE) and creating a sign in and a callback route to handle the user authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this post we explained how to setup a flask session storage to work with the Supabase python library, setting the `flow_type` to use Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE) and creating a sign in and a callback route to handle the user authentication.

## More Resources

- [supabase-py reference docs](https://supabase.com/docs/reference/python/installing)
- [supabase-py GitHub repo](https://github.com/supabase-community/supabase-py)
- [Deep Dive series on auth concepts in Supabase](https://supabase.com/docs/learn/auth-deep-dive/auth-deep-dive-jwts)
```
